after months of Divisions in the block
on Gaza EU leaders at a summit in
Brussels finally agreed on a common
position the consensus of tonight is
that we need an immediate humanitarian
pause leading to a sustained
ceasefire the unconditional release of
hostages and the provision of
humanitarian
assistance it was the first time since
the start of the war that all 27 member
states backed to ceasefire they also
called on Israel not to undertake its
planned invasion of Rafa where more than
a million Palestinians are Sheltering in
Desperate conditions situation is is
dramatic we see today people who trying
to feed themselves by by eating grass
people who are on the on the verge of
being in a in a famine the catastrophic
humanitarian situation in Gaza has
forced EU leaders to harden their tone
when it comes to Israel marking a change
from previous summits certainly Israel
has the right to defend not to
Revenge not to Revenge
defend certainly we support the right of
Israel to defend but we say at the same
time that it has to be done in
accordance with international law inan
law Ukraine was also on the agenda
Ukrainian President Vladimir zalinski
addressed the summit by video link EU
leaders promised to step up military
support for keev and possibly use
profits from Frozen Russian assets to
buy weapons they also agreed on the need
to bolster the Block's defense
capabilities and rely Less on
NATO we have today stated our
determination to reinforce the pillar of
European security and defense within the
EU and looked at how we can Finance it
the EU has been criticized by some for
having double standards in its different
approaches to Ukraine and Gaza but as
Leaders wrapped up the first day of
their Summit they were at pains to
underline that in both conflicts the
block expected all sides to adhere to
the rules of international law Natasha
Butler Al jazer
Brussels make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaer